# [Tue, Dec 24](day://2024.12.24) - Expose additional index attributes via _cat/indices #37499

[`#37499` Expose additional index attributes via _cat/indices](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/issues/37499)

### What is `_cat/indices`?

The CAT (Compact and Aligned Text) API in Elasticsearch serves to present information in a human-readable, tabular format via Kibana console or terminal.

Common query string parameters include `v` (enables verbose output showing column headers), `h` (filters specific columns), and `help` (shows available columns for a command).

Cat indices API provides high-level information about indices in a cluster, including backing indices for data streams. You can get *shard count*, *document count*, *deleted document count*, *primary store size*, and *total store size of all shards, including replicas*, for each index in the cluster (with monitor or manage cluster privileges).

For example,

```plaintext
GET /_cat/indices/my-index-*?v=true&s=index
```

The API returns the following response:

```plaintext
health status index            uuid                   pri rep docs.count docs.deleted store.size pri.store.size dataset.size
yellow open   my-index-000001  u8FNjxh8Rfy_awN11oDKYQ   1   1       1200            0     88.1kb         88.1kb       88.1kb
green  open   my-index-000002  nYFWZEO7TUiOjLQXBaYJpA   1   0          0            0       260b           260b         260b
```

### What are documents and indices in Elasticsearch?

An index is an optimized collection of documents. Each document is a collection of fields, which are key-value pairs that store data. Elasticsearch differs from storing information as rows of columnar data by storing complex data structures that have been serialized as JSON documents.

*Index = Table and Document = Row in the table.*

### How is data stored in Elasticsearch?

Elasticsearch differs from storing information as rows of columnar data by storing complex data structures as JSON documents. It’s a distributed document store, where documents are distributed across the cluster and accessible instantly from any node. Upon storage, they’re indexed and searchable within near real-time (less than 1 second).

### What is Cross-Cluster Replication?

Elasticsearch provides several options to ensure high availability, even in the event of hardware failure or power loss. One such option is cross-cluster replication, which involves replicating data to a remote follower cluster. This follower cluster can be located in a different data center or even on a different continent from the leader cluster. Cross-cluster replication can also serve as a geo-replica, enabling searches to be performed from nearby clients.

Cross-cluster replication uses an active-passive model. You index to a leader index, and data replicates to read-only follower indices. Before adding a follower index, configure the remote cluster with the leader index. When the leader receives writes, follower indices automatically update. You can manually create follower indices or configure auto-follow patterns for new time series indices.

